Update the resift rentals tutorial for ReSift v0.1.0 (#41)
JustSift/ReSift: docs/tutorial/resift-rentals.md

---
id: resift-rentals
title: Tutorial: ReSift Rentals
sidebar_label: ReSift Rentals
---

Welcome to the ReSift tutorial! (_Updated for [v0.1.0](https://github.com/JustSift/ReSift/releases/tag/v0.1.0)_)

> This tutorial introduces basic ReSift concepts through building an app called _ReSift Rentals_. This app lets users to browse movies and update movie information. Click here to see the [completed ReSift Rentals app](https://35w4y.csb.app/). It has the following functionalities:

Author: ah gotya, I'll change the links

- It fetches movie genre data and presents each genre’s name and the thumbnails of the movies in them.
- It optimizes performance by only fetching the data _when needed/in batches_.
  - In the initial load, it fetches 10 movies for each genre to show their movie thumbnails. It’ll fetch the next batch of 10 movies when the user clicks to load more.

>   - When fetching a genre, it only fetches the movie data needed for the movie thumbnails (id, name, and imageUrl). When the user hovers over or clicks on the thumbnail, it’ll fetch the rest of the movie data, such as synopsis, preview url, and actors list, etc.

Author: I like your suggestion a lot!

Right now there’s nothing but a header. We’ll be writing in the `/src` folder during this tutorial. Let’s inspect our starter code in there:

### Folder Structure

- `src/index.js` is the entry point for our react code.
- `src/App.js` is the base file for component imports.
- `src/mockApi` holds our [mockApi](#mockapi) that provides data fetching endpoints.
- `src/components` holds our [components](#components).

### MockApi

We have created a mock API to serve as the HTTP proxy of our app, it's at `/src/mockApi`. The data this mockApi grabs was scrapped from IMDB’s first 50 pages of movies sorted by most recent. It's not necessary to understand how to set up the mockApi to continue with the tutorial. But if you’re interested, you can head over to the [last section](#section-7-create-a-mock-api-using-the-resift-http-proxy) of this tutorial where we walked through its mechanism.

To get started with the tutorial, all you need to know is that there are three endpoints with this API:

1. `/genres`: returns an array of genres in this data shape:

>    ```js

Author: can you give me an example of data examples? do you mean listing out the actual data that gets returned, say instead of `name: string`, I would write `name: Coco`?

   genres: Genre[];

   Genre: {
    id: string,
    name: string,
   }
   ```

2. `/genre/:id/movies`: returns an object with an array of movies and a pagination meta object in this data shape:

   ```js
   movies: {
    results: Movie[],
    paginationMeta: {
      pageSize: number
      currentPageNumber: number,
      totalNumberOfPages: number,
    },
   };

   Movie: {
    id: string,
    name: string,
    imageUrl: string
   }
   ```

3. `/movies/:id`: returns a movie object in this data shape:

   ```js
   movie: {
     id: number,
     name: string,
     imageUrl: string,
     posterUrl: string,
     synopsis: string,
     genres: string[],
     actors: string[],
     mpaaRating: string,
     trailerUrl: string,
     tomatoScore: number,
     theaterReleaseDate: string,
     runtime: string,
   }
   ```

#### Endpoint considerations:

> - The `/genre` endpoint is for displaying the names of each genre on the homepage, so we only need to return the id and name of the each genre.

Author: `/genres` plural  is correct, because we're getting all the genres on the homepage.

- In `/movies/:id`, we return the entire movie object for displaying detailed information in a movie drawer.

### Components

The finished app consists of the following presentational components:

- An `App` component as the base for component imports.
- An `AppBar` component at the top of the app viewport.
- Multiple `Genre` components, each displays the genre's name and the thumbnails of the movies in this genre.
- Multiple `MovieThumbnail` components, each displays the movie's name and horizontal poster.
- Multiple `MovieDrawer` components, each displays the detailed information of the selected movie.
- Multiple `MovieForm` components, each displays a form that allows you to edit the movie information.

![Component Sketch](assets/component_sketch.jpg)

### Styles

We use [classNames](https://github.com/JedWatson/classnames), a utility library to join JSX classes. So instead of doing `classNames={[someClassName, someOtherClassName].join(' ')`, we can just do `classNames(someClassName, someOtherClassName)`.

> We use [JSS](https://cssinjs.org/?v=v10.0.0), a library that allows writing CSS code directly in JavaScript files. We also use components from [Material-UI](https://material-ui.com/), a library constructed using JSS under the hood, for react UI components, such as [Buttons](https://material-ui.com/components/buttons/).

Author: Good point!

import { ResiftProvider } from 'resift';
import dataService from './dataService';
```

And then let's wrap our App component in ReSiftProvider by replacing `<div>` with `<ResiftProvider>` and pass in our data service as the value for the prop `dataService`.

```js
// index.js
function WrappedApp() {
  return (
    <ResiftProvider dataService={dataService}>
      <MuiThemeProvider theme={theme}>...</MuiThemeProvider>
    </ResiftProvider>
  );
}
```

### 3. Making the Fetch

There are four steps to conducting a data fetch using ReSift.

Step 1: [Create a Fetch Factory](#step-1-create-a-fetch-factory-for-genres) </br>
Step 2: [Create the Fetch Instance](#step-2-create-the-fetch-instance)</br>
Step 3: [Use the Fetch](#step-3-use-the-fetch)</br>
Step 4: [Dispatch the Fetch](#step-4-dispatch-the-fetch)

You can think of this process as making an online order:

1. Creating a fetch factory is like adding what you want in a cart.
2. Creating the fetch instance is like submitting your order.
3. Using the fetch is like sending your order to the fulfillment facility, for which the fulfillment facility will respond with the goods you ordered, and send you your fulfillment status.

> 4. And dispatching the fetch is the fulfillment facility sending things out to you based on your order.

Author: I like your analogy, but I think it's a bit technical, I feel the point for an analogy is to making it less technical. I made some changes based on your suggestion in my commit. Lemme know if you like it.

// Components
import AppBar from 'components/AppBar';
import Genre from 'components/Genre';
// Fetches
import { useData, useDispatch, Guard } from 'resift';
import getGenres from 'fetches/getGenres';
// Styles
import { makeStyles } from '@material-ui/core/styles';

const useStyles = makeStyles(theme => ({
  root: {},
  genre: {
    margin: '24px 0',
  },
  spinner: {
    color: 'white',
  },
}));

function App() {
  const classes = useStyles();
  const genres = useData(getGenres);
  const dispatch = useDispatch();

  useEffect(() => {
    dispatch(getGenres());
  }, [dispatch]);

  return (
    <div className={classes.root}>
      <AppBar />
      <Guard fetch={getGenres}>
        {genres => genres.map(genre => <Genre key={genre.id} genre={genre} />)}
      </Guard>
    </div>
  );
}

export default App;
```

Refresh the page now and you'll see the genres data load after a second. Wait, that's not a great user experience having to wait for the data to come without know what's happening. We should indicate to our user that the data is loading.

![Waiting GIF](https://media.giphy.com/media/9SIXFu7bIUYHhFc19G/giphy.gif)

#### Show Fetch Status

> We want to show a loading spinner when we're fetching the data. To achieve this, we'll use the `useStatus` and a helper function to check is the status is 'loading' called `isLoading`. And we'll grab the Material UI spinner called `CircularProgress`. Let's get them imported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We want to show a loading spinner when we fetch data. To achieve this, we'll grab the status via `useStatus` and feed that status into the helper function `isLoading`. We'l also grab the Material UI spinner called `CircularProgress`.

Let's get them imported.
```

```js
import { useStatus, isLoading } from 'resift';
import { CircularProgress } from '@material-ui/core';
```

Now we can add the spinner in while loading

```js
function App() {

>   ...

Reviewer: This is very very nit-picky so feel free to ignore this stylistic comment:

I think it would be better if the `...` here was inside a comment. e.g.

```suggestion
  // ...
```

Because it's not in a comment, this code block is not syntactically correct javascript and thus prettier can't format this block for you ([prettier formats code inside markdown files](https://prettier.io/blog/2017/11/07/1.8.0.html#support-markdown-2943httpsgithubcomprettierprettierpull2943-by-ikatyanghttpsgithubcomikatyang)). If you choose to work on this, you can probably find and replace all the `...`s.

  const status = useStatus(getGenres)

  return (
    <>
      ...
      {isLoading(status) && <CircularProgress className={classes.spinner} />}
      ...
    </>
  );
}
```

Our complete file looks like this now:

```js
// App.js
import React, { useEffect } from 'react';
// Components
import AppBar from 'components/AppBar';
import Genre from 'components/Genre';
// Fetches
import { useData, useDispatch, Guard, useStatus, isLoading } from 'resift';
import getGenres from 'fetches/getGenres';
// Styles
import { makeStyles } from '@material-ui/core/styles';

> import { CircularProgress } from '@material-ui/core';

Reviewer: `CircularProgress` is a component and you have it under the `// Styles` comment. Was this intended?

Author: I grouped to under //styles because it's from the material ui library

const useStyles = makeStyles(theme => ({
  root: {},
  genre: {
    margin: '24px 0',
  },
  spinner: {
    color: 'white',
  },
}));

function App() {
  const classes = useStyles();
  const genres = useData(getGenres);
  const dispatch = useDispatch();
  const status = useStatus(getGenres);

  useEffect(() => {
    dispatch(getGenres());
  }, [dispatch]);

  return (
    <div className={classes.root}>
      <AppBar />
      {isLoading(status) && <CircularProgress className={classes.spinner} />}
      <Guard fetch={getGenres}>
        {genres =>
          genres.map(genre => <Genre key={genre.id} genre={genre} className={classes.genre} />)
        }
      </Guard>
    </div>
  );
}

export default App;
```

Refresh the page and you shall see the loading spinner before the genres data kick in.

> ### Conclude

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Summary
```

Author: I personally prefer conclude, I like the verb as it feels more like sitting in a class lol

Now you’ve gone through some basic fetch concepts, let's review the online order analogy we made earlier to help form a sticky mental modal.

- _Creating a fetch factory is like adding what you want in a cart._</br>
  You're defining what your order/fetch looks like.
- _Creating the fetch instance is like submitting your order._</br>
  You've made up your mind and confirmed your order/fetch.
- _Using the fetch is like sending your order to the fulfillment facility, for which the fulfillment facility will respond with the goods you ordered, and send you your fulfillment status._</br>
  You send off your order/fetch, and then the fulfillment facility/server respond with the goods/data you requested, and notify you the status of sending over the goods/data.
- _Dispatching the fetch is the fulfillment facility sending things out to you based on your order._</br>

>   The server sending out the data requested.

Reviewer: same comment as above. I'm not sure this analogy makes sense. We can work on this or even simply omit it for this tutorial if you agree.

Author: updated in my next commit

You can review the finished code at this point on [Codesandbox](https://codesandbox.io/s/resift-rentals-tutorial-section1-finished-kmxjo). And let’s move on to displaying movie thumbnails in each genre.

## Section 2: Display Movies in Each Genre

> Here's what we are trying to achieve in this section:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's what we will achieve in this section:
```

![Finished screen for this section](assets/section_2_finished.gif)

> We'll see the thumbnails of the movies in each genre, and a loading spinner in each genre to indicate when our app is fetching the movies data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll see the thumbnails of the movies in each genre, and a loading spinner in each genre to indicate when our app is fetching movie data.
```

### Starter Code

The starter code is the finished code from section 1, you can fork it on [Codesandbox](https://codesandbox.io/s/resift-rentals-tutorial-section1-finished-kmxjo).

### 1. Define the Fetch Factory

Let’s first define our fetch, we’ll call it `makeGetMovies.js` and put it in the `/fetches` folder:

> We'll use the `/genre/:id/movies` endpoint from our [mockApi](#mockapi).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll use the `/genre/:id/movies` endpoint from our [mock API](#mockapi).
```
